## Classism Defined

Class has been variously defined by origins, workforce status, income, and educational background. The primary emphasis is on the economics of class. Some consider all who derive their income from wages as members of the working class; others exclude professionals and managers whose incomes are high enough to provide a stake in the capitalist system. Depending on the breadth of the definition, 70-85% of the population can be considered working class.

Classism is the systematic oppression of subordinated groups (people without endowed or acquired economic power, social influence, and privilege) who work for wages for the dominant group (those who have access to control of the necessary resources by which other people make their living). Classism is held in place by a system of beliefs that ranks people according to economic status, family lineage, job, and level of education.

Classism says that dominant group members are smarter and more articulate than working class subordinated groups. In this way, dominant group members (upper- middle class and wealthy people) define for everyone else what is “normal” or “acceptable” in the class hierarchy. There is also a fair amount of internalized oppression experienced by some subordinated group members, i.e., a disdain or shame about traditional patterns of class in ones family and a denial of heritage.

___

## What Dominant Groups Can Do About Classism

* Claim your identity. Learn all you can about your history as a dominant group member.
* Learn the history and experience of all working and impoverished people (particularly people living in your neighborhood or community).
* Raise your children to be anti-classist rather than merely being non-classist in their own behavior. This means becoming active allies with subordinated group members to improve the quality of life for all.
* Give yourself and your children exposure and experience of the language and culture of working peoples.
* Listen with compassion when a member of the subordinated group relays experiences and feelings. Ask for clarification when needed and respond.

___

## What Subordinated Group Members Can Do About Classism

For some subordinated group members, distrust, despair, and anger are common responses to the oppression they experience. (It is the test of a true ally to remain undeterred when these flare up and to refrain from withdrawing support at such points). When subordinated group members begin to believe the stereotypical views and bias of the dominant group about themselves, it “internalizes” the oppression. To begin to undo the damage caused by classism, it is useful for subordinated group members to:

* Examine their feelings about money in terms savings, earning, and credit.
* Examine their feelings about the ways you relate to material gain and consumerism.
* Examine their feelings about education, its role in developing identity, self-efficacy, and the capacity to partner across the various dimensions of difference.
* Examine your feelings and ideas about culturally-installed privilege, power, and influence of various groups and the struggle for significance.
* Claim their identity. Learn all they can about their history and the history and experience of all working and poor peoples.
* Raise their children to be anti-classist rather than merely being non-classist in their own behavior.
* Work on issues that will benefit their communities. Consider remaining in or returning to their communities.
