## Safety

As on any college campus and any urban community, paying attention to safety is important. Although you are entering communities with the best of intentions, students come from all parts of the U.S. and the world, with differing experiences with safety. Here are a few basic guidelines:

* __Use common sense:__ Whether one is traveling locally or internationally, always be aware of your environment and avoid situations that may jeopardize your safety such as traveling alone, at night, or in unfamiliar areas.

* __Be aware of the safety of others:__ Whether you are a group leader or participant, you may be placed in the role of looking after others. Be aware of this responsibility as a developing leader and place safety first.

* __Be prepared:__ Learn the safety precautions and regulations of your site. It is recommended that you know how and where to call for help or assistance when needed. The Tufts Public Safety emergency number is 617-627-6911.

* __Working with minors:__ All students working with minor children must read the “Tufts University Code of Conduct Involving Interactions with Minors” and complete the “Statement of Acknowledgement”.

* Please check with a Tufts staff member, your professor (if this is connected to a course), or your program leader if you have not been provided with this [important document](http://hr.tufts.edu/wp-content/uploads/EMP_General_Code_of_Conduct_Minors.pdf). (Link will open in a new window.)

___

## Working with minors includes:

* On campus (example: tutoring children in the Campus Center)
* Off campus (example: weekly volunteering as a youth coach)
* One-time events (example: Kids Day)
* Curricular (example: a course that requires working with children)
* Co-curricular (example: a student organization that offers youth mentorship activities)
