## Professionalism, Responsibility & Commitment

Here are some tips for successful collaboration as a student working in a community organization:

* __Responsibility__: Be clear on the time commitment. Consider logistics such as transportation, and who to contact in the event of cancellation,  Be mindful of your class schedule and other academic responsibilities.
* 
* __Communication__: Be timely, polite, and responsive in answering emails and returning voicemail messages. Your communication should be limited to work-related emails and phone calls while at the service site. Texting while engaged in service is not appropriate unless you have been told otherwise.

* __Dress__: Ask about appropriate dress if you are uncertain. Clearly volunteering in a community garden requires different attire than working in a city government office!

* __Be on time__: Allow plenty of time to be where you are expected at the time you are expected.

* __Work to the best of your ability__: Meet the same high standards you would expect for yourself in your academic work. Provide high quality results to the community members and organizations.

* __Confidentiality__: Your work may involve handling sensitive information confidentially. Be sure to determine the guidelines for your site. However, if any situation or incident makes you uncomfortable or concerned, be sure to discuss it with your supervisor.

*__Responsibility__: Make sure you follow through on the commitments you made to your community organization.  If you are unable to meet those commitments, communicate this proactively and work to transition your commitments to others. 
