<div class='lede'>
Knowing oneself is essential to effective work in the community with others. Understanding where you stand from an ethical and moral perspective on issues, and examining your values, will be helpful in practical situations such as decision-making, and in creating an experience that can be transformational.
</div>

___

<iframe src='http://player.vimeo.com/video/63416063' width='497' height='280' frameborder='0' webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>

___

## 1. Humility

Sometimes college students approach community work with the attitude that they can “fix” the community, which strains community relationships.  It is important for students to acknowledge they may not know everything. Community-based organizations are experienced and established entities, and if students enter with an attitude of humility and service they can help build an environment conducive to reciprocal, mutually beneficial learning for both campus and community members.

## 2. Courage

Community partners and community members welcome student energy and enthusiasm. Oftentimes entering a new community can be daunting as students navigate different identities, histories, and challenges. One must be open to new experiences  and act with courage to successfully learn and develop while addressing community needs.

## 3. Compassion

“Genuine compassion is based not on our own projections and expectations, but rather on the rights of the other: irrespective of whether another person is a close friend or an enemy, as long as that person wishes for peace and happiness and wishes to overcome suffering, then on that basis we develop a genuine concern for his or her problems. This is genuine compassion.” Dalai Lama

## 4. Respect

Respect for both the dignity of each individual and human rights in society are crucial. “Respecting others means listening to their opinions, behaving in a civil manner, [and] considering the rights and interests of fellow citizens...” [1]  Remember that each individual you encounter, regardless of age, immigration status, national origin, educational level, socioeconomic status, race, religion, or political viewpoint has the potential to be an educator and has assets to give to others.

## 5. Empathy

Empathy is not pity, it is not sympathy.  The difference is standing with, as opposed to standing apart. “When a group of young people have served countless hours... what they are learning is the ability to see the world through somebody  else's eyes, and to stand in somebody else's shoes. ...Cultivate a sense of empathy... Empathy is a quality of character that can change the world.” [2]  Empathy can serve the goal to be nonjudgmental, understanding that we each come with our own life experiences, some of which we were born into through no control of our own, that contribute to who we are.

## 6. Honesty

Honesty is a fundamental ethical value. This includes being honest with yourself and with others. It is important to be honest in your communication with your community partners and with your fellow students, as this builds relationships of trust.

## 7. Solidarity

“Pity is not enough, compassion is a real and deep human feeling, sympathy and empathy are good, but solidarity is better, and collaboration is the best thing we can offer...” by the Shilanga Unit Women Group, Kibera, Nairobi, Kenya
